# Zk-Snarks
A Practical example of  implementing Zero knowledge proof (ZKP) for blockchain to maintain privacy

#### What exactly is ZKP?

In cryptography, zero knowledge proof(ZKP) mechanism is useful in sharing confidential data across network without disclosing data to any third person in the network. you may think "no one will share confidential data to the unknown network participants already. why do we need ZKP at all ?" in Blockchain networks (both permissioned and permissionless), every transaction should go through verifiers in order to validate it. so, verifier(miners or endorsers) can see whatever the data you submitted along with transaction. what if you dont want disclose your confidential data even to verifier? thats where ZKP comes in. in Zero knowledge proof mechanism, you prove that you know something(your data), without revealing it.

lets imagine, alice wants to send some secret information ```s``` to bob and she doesn't want to share it with verifier, she can simply hash the value of ```s``` and submit hash of secret information```h``` along with the proof ```prf``` that says h==s. so when verifier runs verification function by providing ```h``` and ```prf``` as inputs, it would return true only when ```h==s```. so verifier can convience himself that proof provided by alice is correct. here verifier has no idea about secret value ```s``` and only knows hash of it.

ZKP Consists three major functions

1. Key Generation (G)
2. Prover Function (PF)
3. Verifier Function (VF)

##### 1. Key Generator(G):

 Key Generator function(G) takes lambda ```Λ``` (a random generated constant larger sized number) as input and generates two publicly available keys like, proving Key(pk) and verifying key(vk). these keys are used in respective proving verfying function. here lambda value should be tricky and large in size. if anyone knows it, they can generate fake proofs in order to manipulate data.

```
G(Λ)=[pk,vk]
```

##### 2. Prover Function(PF):
Prover function takes takes previously generated proving key, secret value ```s``` and hash of secret ```h``` as inputs and generate proof ```prf```. this proof will be verified by verifier.

```
prf= PF(s, h, pk)
```


#### 3. Verifier Function:
verifier function takes takes previously generated verfying key(vk), hash of secret ```h``` and ```prf``` generated by prover as inputs and returns true or false based on proof submitted.

```
VF(vk, h, prf)== bool //true or false

```
